README.md, before:

# SOP Viewer

By Weng (Weng Fei Fung)

![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/Siphon880gh/sop-reader/main)
<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/Siphon880gh" rel="nofollow"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub--blue?style=social&logo=GitHub" alt="Github" data-canonical-src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub--blue?style=social&logo=GitHub" style="max-width:8.5ch;"></a>
<a target="_blank" href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/weng-fung/" rel="nofollow"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-blue?style=flat&logo=linkedin&labelColor=blue" alt="Linked-In" data-canonical-src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-blue?style=flat&amp;logo=linkedin&amp;labelColor=blue" style="max-width:10ch;"></a>
<a target="_blank" href="https://www.youtube.com/@WayneTeachesCode/" rel="nofollow"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Youtube-red?style=flat&logo=youtube&labelColor=red" alt="Youtube" data-canonical-src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Youtube-red?style=flat&amp;logo=youtube&amp;labelColor=red" style="max-width:10ch;"></a>

## Summary

- **Zero-configuration markdown viewer** that auto-discovers `.md` files in `documents/` folder with instant web dropdown access
- **Intelligent mindmap generation** from markdown lists using Mermaid.js with configurable layouts (spider/tree), zoom controls, and full-screen mode
- **Dual-mode viewing** between rendered HTML and raw markdown with interactive table of contents navigation
- **Static hosting compatible** using vanilla HTML/CSS/JavaScript, markdown-it rendering, and automated build system
- **Modern responsive UI** with gradient design, dedicated mindmap styling, smooth animations, and development file watching

*For detailed technical context and AI-friendly documentation, see [`context.md`](context.md) and feature-specific context files (`context-*.md`)*

In the future:
While it is an SOP reader for Markdown documents in a folder: It not only builds a table of contents, but also generates mind maps and displays link popovers with preview excerpts defined by selecting the starting and ending words.

---

## Features

![Screenshot of app](readme/app-v1.png)

- 📄 **Dynamic File Discovery**: Automatically scans the `documents/` folder for markdown files
- 🔄 **Build System**: Uses npm scripts to generate file listings with metadata
- 👀 **File Watching**: Development mode with automatic rebuilds
- 🎨 **Dual-Mode Viewing**: Toggle between rendered HTML and raw markdown
- 📋 **Interactive Table of Contents**: Floating TOC panel with smooth scroll navigation
- 🧠 **Intelligent Mindmap Generation**: Automatically detects markdown lists with placeholder images and generates interactive Mermaid.js mindmaps with configurable layout types (spider/tree)
- 🎨 **Modern UI**: Clean, responsive design with gradient styling and contextual UI elements
- ⚡ **Fast Rendering**: Powered by markdown-it with full feature support

## Quick Start

1. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Add your markdown files** to the `documents/` folder

3. **Build the file list**:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

4. **Start the development server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. **Open your browser** to `http://127.0.0.1:8000`

## Configuration

The application supports configuration through a `config.json` file in the root directory:

```json
{
  "mindmap": {
    "type": "spider"
  }
}
```

### Mindmap Types

- **Spider (default)**: Radial mindmap with central root node. Set the type to `spider`.
- **Tree**: Hierarchical tree layout with top-down structure. Set the type to `tree` or `tree-down`.
- **Tree-right**: Hierarchical tree layout with left-to-right structure. Set the type to `tree-right`.

To change the mindmap type, simply update the `type` field in `config.json` and refresh the page.

## Available Scripts

- `npm run build` - Generate `markdownFiles.json` from files in `documents/`
- `npm run dev` - Build and start development server
- `npm run serve` - Start server without building
- `npm run watch` - Watch `documents/` folder and auto-rebuild on changes

## Project Structure

```
mdmindmap/
├── assets/
│   ├── script.js       # JavaScript logic
│   └── style.css       # Styling and responsive design
├── documents/          # Place your .md files here
│   ├── doc.md
│   └── sample.md
├── scripts/
│   ├── generateFileList.js  # Build script
│   └── watch.js            # File watcher
├── config.json         # Configuration file (mindmap types, etc.)
├── index.html          # Main HTML structure
├── markdownFiles.json  # Generated file list (auto-generated)
└── package.json        # Build configuration
```

## Development Workflow

1. **Add new markdown files** to `documents/` folder
2. **Run `npm run build`** to update the file list
3. **Refresh your browser** to see the new files in the dropdown

For continuous development, use `npm run watch` to automatically rebuild when files change.

## How It Works

1. The build script (`scripts/generateFileList.js`) scans the `documents/` folder
2. It generates `markdownFiles.json` with metadata about each markdown file
3. The HTML page fetches this JSON and populates the dropdown dynamically
4. When you select a file, it's loaded from the `documents/` folder and rendered

This approach eliminates the need to hardcode file lists while maintaining compatibility with static hosting.

Commit message:

Added popover with selected excerpt

README.md, after:

# SOP Viewer

By Weng (Weng Fei Fung)

![Last Commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/Siphon880gh/sop-reader/main)
<a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/Siphon880gh" rel="nofollow"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub--blue?style=social&logo=GitHub" alt="Github" data-canonical-src="https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub--blue?style=social&logo=GitHub" style="max-width:8.5ch;"></a>
<a target="_blank" href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/weng-fung/" rel="nofollow"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-blue?style=flat&logo=linkedin&labelColor=blue" alt="Linked-In" data-canonical-src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-blue?style=flat&amp;logo=linkedin&amp;labelColor=blue" style="max-width:10ch;"></a>
<a target="_blank" href="https://www.youtube.com/@WayneTeachesCode/" rel="nofollow"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Youtube-red?style=flat&logo=youtube&labelColor=red" alt="Youtube" data-canonical-src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Youtube-red?style=flat&amp;logo=youtube&amp;labelColor=red" style="max-width:10ch;"></a>

## Summary

- **Zero-configuration markdown viewer** that auto-discovers `.md` files in `documents/` folder with instant web dropdown access
- **Intelligent mindmap generation** from markdown lists using Mermaid.js with configurable layouts (spider/tree), zoom controls, and full-screen mode
- **Link popover previews** that fetch and display webpage excerpts on hover using boundary word patterns (A..B or A...B)
- **Dual-mode viewing** between rendered HTML and raw markdown with interactive table of contents navigation
- **Static hosting compatible** using vanilla HTML/CSS/JavaScript, markdown-it rendering, and automated build system
- **Modern responsive UI** with gradient design, dedicated styling for mindmaps and popovers, smooth animations, and development file watching

*For detailed technical context and AI-friendly documentation, see [`context.md`](context.md) and feature-specific context files (`context-*.md`)*

**Current Features**: This SOP reader for Markdown documents in a folder builds a table of contents, generates interactive mind maps, and displays link popovers with preview excerpts defined by selecting starting and ending boundary words.

---

## Features

![Screenshot of app](readme/app-v1.png)

- 📄 **Dynamic File Discovery**: Automatically scans the `documents/` folder for markdown files
- 🔄 **Build System**: Uses npm scripts to generate file listings with metadata
- 👀 **File Watching**: Development mode with automatic rebuilds
- 🎨 **Dual-Mode Viewing**: Toggle between rendered HTML and raw markdown
- 📋 **Interactive Table of Contents**: Floating TOC panel with smooth scroll navigation
- 🧠 **Intelligent Mindmap Generation**: Automatically detects markdown lists with placeholder images and generates interactive Mermaid.js mindmaps with configurable layout types (spider/tree)
- 🔗 **Link Popover Previews**: Hover-based content previews that fetch and extract text from external webpages using boundary word patterns
- 🎨 **Modern UI**: Clean, responsive design with gradient styling, enhanced link indicators, and contextual UI elements
- ⚡ **Fast Rendering**: Powered by markdown-it with full feature support

## Quick Start

1. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Add your markdown files** to the `documents/` folder

3. **Build the file list**:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

4. **Start the development server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

5. **Open your browser** to `http://127.0.0.1:8000`

## Configuration

The application supports configuration through a `config.json` file in the root directory:

```json
{
  "mindmap": {
    "type": "spider"
  }
}
```

### Mindmap Types

- **Spider (default)**: Radial mindmap with central root node. Set the type to `spider`.
- **Tree**: Hierarchical tree layout with top-down structure. Set the type to `tree` or `tree-down`.
- **Tree-right**: Hierarchical tree layout with left-to-right structure. Set the type to `tree-right`.

To change the mindmap type, simply update the `type` field in `config.json` and refresh the page.

## Available Scripts

- `npm run build` - Generate `markdownFiles.json` from files in `documents/`
- `npm run dev` - Build and start development server
- `npm run serve` - Start server without building
- `npm run watch` - Watch `documents/` folder and auto-rebuild on changes

## Project Structure

```
mdmindmap/
├── assets/
│   ├── script.js       # JavaScript logic
│   └── style.css       # Styling and responsive design
├── documents/          # Place your .md files here
│   ├── doc.md
│   └── sample.md
├── scripts/
│   ├── generateFileList.js  # Build script
│   └── watch.js            # File watcher
├── config.json         # Configuration file (mindmap types, etc.)
├── index.html          # Main HTML structure
├── markdownFiles.json  # Generated file list (auto-generated)
└── package.json        # Build configuration
```

## Development Workflow

1. **Add new markdown files** to `documents/` folder
2. **Run `npm run build`** to update the file list
3. **Refresh your browser** to see the new files in the dropdown

For continuous development, use `npm run watch` to automatically rebuild when files change.

## How It Works

1. The build script (`scripts/generateFileList.js`) scans the `documents/` folder
2. It generates `markdownFiles.json` with metadata about each markdown file
3. The HTML page fetches this JSON and populates the dropdown dynamically
4. When you select a file, it's loaded from the `documents/` folder and rendered

This approach eliminates the need to hardcode file lists while maintaining compatibility with static hosting.
